---
title:  'CP476 Project: BookIndex<br>'
author: Michael Child-Wynne-Jones, Morgenne Besenschek, Chang Xing Li
date: 2021-03-22
---

## Introduction

BookIndex is a cross between a wiki and a book reviewing website. It stores a books direct information (such as a summary, publishing information, etc) as well as external information, such as reviews, critical reception, sources/inspirations, and keywords. A user will be able to login, search books, look at and sometimes edit articles.

Features we hope to reach in the future include 
 
## Problem solving and algorithms

Briefly describe the major computing problem need to solve in your project. 

1. Application data collection, representation and storage. You are allowed to use existing thirty party for your project. You need to refer the data source. 
2. Algorithms to solve the computing problems for information or models.  

The application will be able to display chains of works that refer to, or are inspired by other works using a BFS algorithm. Essentially, a book may have a list of books that it cites as sources or that it was inspired by, and these books each have their own sources. The client would be able to click a button to see the chain of books that eventually influenced the current book.

The BFS algorithm will take each source in a books Sources section and find that book (as well as its own sources, ignoring duplicates) and use this to create a "tree" of all the books that relate.

## System Design

1. System design of your solutions as a multi-tier Internet/web application.
2. The architecture, better to use a diagram to illustrate the components and their relations. 
3. Tools to be used in the project, such as web server, CGI programming tool, databases, client side tools.  

The application will have a login page that will determine the users role, leading to a dynamic page with search functionality, book submission, and article editing features. Access to certain pages depends on the user's role.
The login page will have the option for a user to login with a username and password, or continue as a guest. The guest will be taken to the search page, but will have no other options.
If the user logs in as a user (with a first-level role) they will have book creation permissions, and can open a menu to add a book to the database. The Home page will have a search form, as well as a form for adding a book. 
If the user logs in as an admin (a second-level role) they will have the book creation and editing permissions, allowing them to adjust content on the site and edit articles and book data (and also delete books).
The project will use html, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX, PHP, MySQL, NodeJS, and XAMPP as tools.

## Milestones & schedule

List of tasks/milestones/check points of your project with time schedule. For group project, it needs to provide the roles and tasks of each member.


| Task ID | Description   |  Due date | Lead   |  Role |
| :----:  | :------------ | :-----:   | :------: |  :-------: |
|  1      | Project research & team up | Day 5 of week 9 | Michael | -----
|  2      | Project proposal | Day 1 of week 10 | Michael | -----
|  3      | Project check point  | Day 1 of week 11 | Morgenne  | MySQL Database design
|  4      | Project check point  | Day 1 of week 11 | Michael  | BFS algorithm Implementation
|  5      | Project check point  | Day 1 of week 12  | Chang  | -----
|  6      | Project demonstration | Day 5 of week 12 | Michael  | -----
|  7      | Project submission | Day 5 of week 13 | Michael   | -----


## References

https://stackoverflow.com



## Appendices

1. Check the project [readme.txt](readme.txt) for detailed requirements and evaluation. You need to describe and claim new features in your project, so it is good (not required) to mention some new features in the proposal. For example, you can introduce more security features such as password encryption and HTTPS for your application. You can test to deploy your application on Docker. 
        
2. You may use HTML elements and CSS for better presentation of your proposal. For example, this HTML document is generated by using [proposal_template.md](proposal_template.md) and  [proposal.css](proposal.css) and the following pandoc command   

~~~
pandoc  -s  -i proposal_template.md -o proposal_template.html --css=proposal.css
~~~

3. You can submit your proposal in PDF file format.
